docs/ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Acknowledgments
nav_order: 9
---

# Acknowledgments

UmbraCore stands on the shoulders of giants. We're deeply grateful to the following open-source projects and their maintainers:

## Core Dependencies

### [Restic](https://restic.net)
Restic is the backbone of UmbraCore's backup capabilities. It's a modern backup program that provides:
- Fast, secure, and efficient backups
- Deduplication
- Encryption
- Multiple backend support
- Outstanding performance

We highly recommend supporting the Restic project:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/restic/restic)
- [Documentation](https://restic.readthedocs.io)
- [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/restic/restic/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Donate](https://opencollective.com/restic)

### [SwiftyBeaver](https://swiftybeaver.com)
SwiftyBeaver powers UmbraCore's logging infrastructure. It's a sophisticated logging system that offers:
- Colourised console output
- File logging
- Cloud logging
- Custom formats
- Filters and threading support

Support SwiftyBeaver:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/SwiftyBeaver/SwiftyBeaver)
- [Documentation](https://docs.swiftybeaver.com)
- [Pro Features](https://swiftybeaver.com/pro)

### [CryptoSwift](https://cryptoswift.io)
CryptoSwift provides UmbraCore's cryptographic operations. It's a comprehensive cryptography framework offering:
- AES encryption
- Hash functions
- HMAC
- PBKDF
- Extensible architecture

Support CryptoSwift:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift)
- [Documentation](https://cryptoswift.io/docs)
- [Sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/krzyzanowskim)

## Development Tools

### [Just the Docs](https://just-the-docs.github.io/just-the-docs/)
The beautiful documentation theme you're currently viewing. Features:
- Clean, responsive design
- Full-text search
- Dark/light mode
- Navigation structure
- Customisation options

Support Just the Docs:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs)
- [Documentation](https://just-the-docs.github.io/just-the-docs/)
- [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

### [Jazzy](https://github.com/realm/jazzy)
Jazzy generates our API documentation. It provides:
- Clean documentation generation
- Markdown support
- Search functionality
- Cross-references

Support Jazzy:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/realm/jazzy)
- [Documentation](https://github.com/realm/jazzy#readme)
- [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/realm/jazzy/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

### [SwiftLint](https://realm.github.io/SwiftLint/)
SwiftLint helps maintain our code quality. It offers:
- Style and convention checking
- Customisable rules
- Automatic fixing
- Xcode integration

Support SwiftLint:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint)
- [Documentation](https://realm.github.io/SwiftLint/)
- [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Security Tools

### [Snyk](https://snyk.io)
Snyk helps keep UmbraCore secure by providing:
- Vulnerability scanning
- Dependency monitoring
- Security updates
- License compliance

Support Snyk:
- [Website](https://snyk.io)
- [Documentation](https://docs.snyk.io)
- [Blog](https://snyk.io/blog)

### [Codecov](https://codecov.io)
Codecov helps maintain our test coverage by offering:
- Coverage reporting
- PR checks
- Trending analysis
- Quality gates

Support Codecov:
- [Website](https://codecov.io)
- [Documentation](https://docs.codecov.io)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/codecov/codecov-api)

## Contributing
If you're interested in contributing to UmbraCore, please check our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md). We welcome all contributions, from code to documentation improvements.

## Supporting Open Source
We encourage users of UmbraCore to consider supporting these projects through:
- Code contributions
- Documentation improvements
- Bug reports
- Financial support where available
- Spreading the word about their excellent work

The strength of UmbraCore comes from these outstanding open-source projects. Supporting them helps ensure a vibrant and sustainable open-source ecosystem.

Commit message:

docs: switch to Doks theme
- Copy Doks theme files
- Update Jekyll configuration
- Create custom docs layout
- Update documentation front matter
- Improve homepage structure

docs/ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Acknowledgments
description: Acknowledging the open source projects that make UmbraCore possible
nav_order: 9
---

# Acknowledgments

UmbraCore stands on the shoulders of giants. We're deeply grateful to the following open-source projects and their maintainers:

## Core Dependencies

### [Restic](https://restic.net)
Restic is the backbone of UmbraCore's backup capabilities. It's a modern backup program that provides:
- Fast, secure, and efficient backups
- Deduplication
- Encryption
- Multiple backend support
- Outstanding performance

We highly recommend supporting the Restic project:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/restic/restic)
- [Documentation](https://restic.readthedocs.io)
- [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/restic/restic/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Donate](https://opencollective.com/restic)

### [SwiftyBeaver](https://swiftybeaver.com)
SwiftyBeaver powers UmbraCore's logging infrastructure. It's a sophisticated logging system that offers:
- Colourised console output
- File logging
- Cloud logging
- Custom formats
- Filters and threading support

Support SwiftyBeaver:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/SwiftyBeaver/SwiftyBeaver)
- [Documentation](https://docs.swiftybeaver.com)
- [Pro Features](https://swiftybeaver.com/pro)

### [CryptoSwift](https://cryptoswift.io)
CryptoSwift provides UmbraCore's cryptographic operations. It's a comprehensive cryptography framework offering:
- AES encryption
- Hash functions
- HMAC
- PBKDF
- Extensible architecture

Support CryptoSwift:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift)
- [Documentation](https://cryptoswift.io/docs)
- [Sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/krzyzanowskim)

## Development Tools

### [Just the Docs](https://just-the-docs.github.io/just-the-docs/)
The beautiful documentation theme you're currently viewing. Features:
- Clean, responsive design
- Full-text search
- Dark/light mode
- Navigation structure
- Customisation options

Support Just the Docs:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs)
- [Documentation](https://just-the-docs.github.io/just-the-docs/)
- [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

### [Jazzy](https://github.com/realm/jazzy)
Jazzy generates our API documentation. It provides:
- Clean documentation generation
- Markdown support
- Search functionality
- Cross-references

Support Jazzy:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/realm/jazzy)
- [Documentation](https://github.com/realm/jazzy#readme)
- [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/realm/jazzy/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

### [SwiftLint](https://realm.github.io/SwiftLint/)
SwiftLint helps maintain our code quality. It offers:
- Style and convention checking
- Customisable rules
- Automatic fixing
- Xcode integration

Support SwiftLint:
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint)
- [Documentation](https://realm.github.io/SwiftLint/)
- [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Security Tools

### [Snyk](https://snyk.io)
Snyk helps keep UmbraCore secure by providing:
- Vulnerability scanning
- Dependency monitoring
- Security updates
- License compliance

Support Snyk:
- [Website](https://snyk.io)
- [Documentation](https://docs.snyk.io)
- [Blog](https://snyk.io/blog)

### [Codecov](https://codecov.io)
Codecov helps maintain our test coverage by offering:
- Coverage reporting
- PR checks
- Trending analysis
- Quality gates

Support Codecov:
- [Website](https://codecov.io)
- [Documentation](https://docs.codecov.io)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/codecov/codecov-api)

## Contributing
If you're interested in contributing to UmbraCore, please check our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md). We welcome all contributions, from code to documentation improvements.

## Supporting Open Source
We encourage users of UmbraCore to consider supporting these projects through:
- Code contributions
- Documentation improvements
- Bug reports
- Financial support where available
- Spreading the word about their excellent work

The strength of UmbraCore comes from these outstanding open-source projects. Supporting them helps ensure a vibrant and sustainable open-source ecosystem.
